README.md, before:

# PKHeX Automatic Legality Mod

Come join the dedicated server for this bot! Ask questions, give suggestions, get help, or just hang out. Don't be shy, we don't bite:

[<img src="https://canary.discordapp.com/api/guilds/401014193211441153/widget.png?style=banner2">](https://discord.gg/9ptDkpV)

PKHeX Automatic Legality Mod is for being able to make instant legal Pokémon on [PKHeX](https://github.com/kwsch/PKHeX) using just a [Pokémon Showdown](https://github.com/Zarel/Pokemon-Showdown) teambuilder template.

What is a mod exactly? In this case a mod is somewhat like a macro being used in the given framework without being greatly changed from the original and also making the Pokemon legal.

This repository contains the files needed to set up your own PKHeX build with all the amazing stuff that it has as well as the Pokemon Showdown Mod in it.

For more information on building and usage, contact me on Discord at thecommondude#8240

The teambuilder for the Pokemon templates can be found on:
[Pokémon Showdown](http://play.pokemonshowdown.com/teambuilder)

## Features

- Legality for all egg based Pokemon
- Legality for all legendary Pokemon from all generations
- Auto Legality support for all Pokemon in all generations except Colosseum and XD
- Mystery Gift Legality based on `mgdb` database provided
- Supports HaX easter egg in PKHeX
- Supports multiple Pokemon import to the first `n` available slots in the current box (`n` is the number of pokemon being imported)
- Supports custom OT, TID, SID, Gender, Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion setting wherever possible.
- Supports error handling for -Mega and -Busted pokemon (All megas and mimikyu)
- Custom import short cut for Auto-mod: `Ctrl + I`

## How to quick set-up the mod.

- (Requires a C# IDE such as Visual Studio 17 or Mono Develop)

- First of all download PKHeX by doing the following.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/kwsch/PKHeX.git
```
- Copy the files in this repository to the PKHeX repository while following the directory structure.
- Open the `.sln` solution file using Visual Studio 17 / Mono Develop.
- It is always a good practice to build the solution first to resolve any unresolved errors with the solution.
- To do this, right click on the main PKHeX project and click on Rebuild all. Wait for the whole process to finish.
- Add the `AutoLegality` folder by dragging and dropping the `AutoLegality` folder inside `PKHeX.WinForms` subproject.
- Inside the `AutoLegality/Resources/byte` folder click on `reset.pk7` file and set it as an `Embedded Resource` in the property box below.
- Inside the `AutoLegality/Resources/test` folder click on `evolutions.txt` file and set it as an `Embedded Resource` in the property box below.
- Go to `MainWindow` folder and open the `Main.Designer.cs` file.
- Search for the line `this.Menu_Showdown.DropDownItems` using `Ctrl + F`.
- After the semicolon (`;`) write this line of code on the next line

```csharp
            this.Menu_Showdown.DropDownItems.Add(EnableAutoLegality(resources));
```

- Right click on the main PKHeX project and click Rebuild all.
- The output of the PKHeX file should be in `PKHeX\PKHeX.WinForms\bin\Debug` folder.

## Tutorial Video

- Thanks to [ZMarotrix](https://www.youtube.com/user/zmarotrix) for the updated video tutorial.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yak_eNAUO7I&feature=youtu.be

## [OPTIONAL] TID, SID, OT, Country, Sub Region, Console Region settings.

- Create a new text file called `trainerdata.txt` in the same directory as `PKHeX.exe`

**Automatic TID, SID, OT, Country, Sub Region, Console Region settings**
- Inside `trainerdata.txt` write `auto` and save.
- This will try and automatically pull Trainer and Region values from your loaded save file

**Specific/Fallback TID, SID, OT, Country, Sub Region, Console Region settings**
- Inside the directory paste your TID, SID ,OT, Gender, Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion based on the sample given below.
- Note: Follow the format of the sample given below. DO NOT change the format. Just edit the values.
- The `trainerdata.txt` format should be as follows:
```
TID:12345
SID:54321
OT:PKHeX
Gender:M
Country:Canada
SubRegion:Alberta
3DSRegion:Americas (NA/SA)
```
- Gender can be specified as `M` or `F` or `Male` or `Female`
- Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion have to be spelt exactly as one of the options on PKHeX. Any spelling errors WILL fail.
- To ensure proper legality in regards to Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion, make sure that the SubRegion actually belongs to the Country, and the Country actually lies in the 3DSRegion.
- **Note**: If the first line of the `trainerdata.txt` is `auto`, it will check for the above values in the SAV file first. If it cannot find those values, it will use the values specified below in the rest of the file

*Credits to the several people who requested this in GitHub Issues*

## [OPTIONAL] Addon Legality mods:

The instructions for each one of these will be located within their own folders within the `Addons (Optional)` folder in the repository
Current Addons:
- PGL Rental QR Teams auto legal genning. Also copies the Showdown spread to clipboard for convenience.

## Adding Priority to event searches.

- If you would like to have certain events to be scanned first (eg Gen7 events or Gen6 events etc.) do the following:
- Set an order of priority to your folders in the `mgdb` folder.
- For example if you want `Gen7` folder to be scanned first, you can rename the folder as `01_Gen7` to set its priority as 1 so it will be scanned first. You can do the same for any folder you wish to have second/third/fourth priority and so on.
- This will help reduce time in event scanning since with all events in the folder, a full top to bottom scan can take upto a good five minutes.
- The time complexity right now is O(n) and is planned on being reduced for faster searches, but this is a nifty trick for now.

## Maintainers

Just me right now, but if you want to contribute, feel free to contact me on Discord at thecommondude#8240

## Credits
- IV to PID conversion code taken [RNGReporter](https://github.com/Admiral-Fish/RNGReporter) by [Admiral-Fish](https://github.com/Admiral-Fish) which is under the GNU General Public License v2.0.
- My good friend TORNADO for helping me with Test Cases
- Speed Improvement ideas by [Bernardo Giordano](https://github.com/BernardoGiordano)
- kwsch for the original PKHeX repository.
- All the other users who have helped improve this via GitHub issues

Commit message:

Added ability to import Showdown Sets from text files
Thanks @ricksee and BrockTheRockCock#2352 for the suggestion via Discord

README.md, after:

# PKHeX Automatic Legality Mod

Come join the dedicated server for this bot! Ask questions, give suggestions, get help, or just hang out. Don't be shy, we don't bite:

[<img src="https://canary.discordapp.com/api/guilds/401014193211441153/widget.png?style=banner2">](https://discord.gg/9ptDkpV)

PKHeX Automatic Legality Mod is for being able to make instant legal Pokémon on [PKHeX](https://github.com/kwsch/PKHeX) using just a [Pokémon Showdown](https://github.com/Zarel/Pokemon-Showdown) teambuilder template.

What is a mod exactly? In this case a mod is somewhat like a macro being used in the given framework without being greatly changed from the original and also making the Pokemon legal.

This repository contains the files needed to set up your own PKHeX build with all the amazing stuff that it has as well as the Pokemon Showdown Mod in it.

For more information on building and usage, contact me on Discord at thecommondude#8240

The teambuilder for the Pokemon templates can be found on:
[Pokémon Showdown](http://play.pokemonshowdown.com/teambuilder)

## Features

- Legality for all egg based Pokemon
- Legality for all legendary Pokemon from all generations
- Auto Legality support for all Pokemon in all generations except Colosseum and XD
- Mystery Gift Legality based on `mgdb` database provided
- Supports HaX easter egg in PKHeX
- Supports multiple Pokemon import to the first `n` available slots in the current box (`n` is the number of pokemon being imported)
- Supports custom OT, TID, SID, Gender, Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion setting wherever possible.
- Also allows automatic filling of the above settings if detected in a save file
- Supports error handling for -Mega and -Busted pokemon (All megas and mimikyu)
- Custom import short cut for Auto-mod: `Ctrl + I`
- Ability to gen Pokemon from a `txt` file as long as it is properly formatted.
- Additional features from the Addon mods

## How to quick set-up the mod.

- (Requires a C# IDE such as Visual Studio 17 or Mono Develop)

- First of all download PKHeX by doing the following.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/kwsch/PKHeX.git
```
- Copy the files in this repository to the PKHeX repository while following the directory structure.
- Open the `.sln` solution file using Visual Studio 17 / Mono Develop.
- It is always a good practice to build the solution first to resolve any unresolved errors with the solution.
- To do this, right click on the main PKHeX project and click on Rebuild all. Wait for the whole process to finish.
- Add the `AutoLegality` folder by dragging and dropping the `AutoLegality` folder inside `PKHeX.WinForms` subproject.
- Inside the `AutoLegality/Resources/byte` folder click on `reset.pk7` file and set it as an `Embedded Resource` in the property box below.
- Inside the `AutoLegality/Resources/test` folder click on `evolutions.txt` file and set it as an `Embedded Resource` in the property box below.
- Go to `MainWindow` folder and open the `Main.Designer.cs` file.
- Search for the line `this.Menu_Showdown.DropDownItems` using `Ctrl + F`.
- After the semicolon (`;`) write this line of code on the next line

```csharp
            this.Menu_Showdown.DropDownItems.Add(EnableAutoLegality(resources));
```

- Right click on the main PKHeX project and click Rebuild all.
- The output of the PKHeX file should be in `PKHeX\PKHeX.WinForms\bin\Debug` folder.

## Tutorial Video

- Thanks to [ZMarotrix](https://www.youtube.com/user/zmarotrix) for the updated video tutorial.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yak_eNAUO7I&feature=youtu.be

## [OPTIONAL] TID, SID, OT, Country, Sub Region, Console Region settings.

- Create a new text file called `trainerdata.txt` in the same directory as `PKHeX.exe`

**Automatic TID, SID, OT, Country, Sub Region, Console Region settings**
- Inside `trainerdata.txt` write `auto` and save.
- This will try and automatically pull Trainer and Region values from your loaded save file

**Specific/Fallback TID, SID, OT, Country, Sub Region, Console Region settings**
- Inside the directory paste your TID, SID ,OT, Gender, Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion based on the sample given below.
- Note: Follow the format of the sample given below. DO NOT change the format. Just edit the values.
- The `trainerdata.txt` format should be as follows:
```
TID:12345
SID:54321
OT:PKHeX
Gender:M
Country:Canada
SubRegion:Alberta
3DSRegion:Americas (NA/SA)
```
- Gender can be specified as `M` or `F` or `Male` or `Female`
- Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion have to be spelt exactly as one of the options on PKHeX. Any spelling errors WILL fail.
- To ensure proper legality in regards to Country, SubRegion and 3DSRegion, make sure that the SubRegion actually belongs to the Country, and the Country actually lies in the 3DSRegion.
- **Note**: If the first line of the `trainerdata.txt` is `auto`, it will check for the above values in the SAV file first. If it cannot find those values, it will use the values specified below in the rest of the file

*Credits to the several people who requested this in GitHub Issues*

## [OPTIONAL] Addon Legality mods:

The instructions for each one of these will be located within their own folders within the `Addons (Optional)` folder in the repository
Current Addons:
- PGL Rental QR Teams auto legal genning. Also copies the Showdown spread to clipboard for convenience.

## Adding Priority to event searches.

- If you would like to have certain events to be scanned first (eg Gen7 events or Gen6 events etc.) do the following:
- Set an order of priority to your folders in the `mgdb` folder.
- For example if you want `Gen7` folder to be scanned first, you can rename the folder as `01_Gen7` to set its priority as 1 so it will be scanned first. You can do the same for any folder you wish to have second/third/fourth priority and so on.
- This will help reduce time in event scanning since with all events in the folder, a full top to bottom scan can take upto a good five minutes.
- The time complexity right now is O(n) and is planned on being reduced for faster searches, but this is a nifty trick for now.

## Maintainers

Just me right now, but if you want to contribute, feel free to contact me on Discord at thecommondude#8240

## Credits
- IV to PID conversion code taken [RNGReporter](https://github.com/Admiral-Fish/RNGReporter) by [Admiral-Fish](https://github.com/Admiral-Fish) which is under the GNU General Public License v2.0.
- My good friend TORNADO for helping me with Test Cases
- Speed Improvement ideas by [Bernardo Giordano](https://github.com/BernardoGiordano)
- kwsch for the original PKHeX repository.
- All the other users who have helped improve this via GitHub issues
