Addons (Optional)/README.md, before:

# Addons

These mods are addons to the original autolegality mod, they help achieve tasks using the Auto Legality Mod or help Auto Legality mod directly for legality (MGDB Downloader/ Export Trainer Data)

# The current List of Addons is as follows

- [Export Trainer Data](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/Export%20Trainer%20Data): Export Trainer Data from any Pokemon to save TID, SID, OT and Region settings for future auto legality mod genning
- [MGDB Downloader](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/MGDB%20Downloader): Downloads the latest Release/Commit of the Event Gallery for event genning
- [PGL QR Auto Legality](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/PGL%20QR%20Auto%20Legality): Uses Auto legality mod to gen pokemon from a PGL QR code automatically
- [Smogon Genner](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/Smogon%20Genner): Uses Auto legality mod to enerate all Pokemon sets specified for a specific Pokemon on smogon.com
- [URL Genning](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/URL%20Genning): Uses Auto Legality mod to generate sets from a pastebin/pokepaste url and shows author data/title

Commit message:

Addons: Add Legalize Box Addon
Legalizes all the Pokemon within the box

Addons (Optional)/README.md, after:

# Addons

These mods are addons to the original autolegality mod, they help achieve tasks using the Auto Legality Mod or help Auto Legality mod directly for legality (MGDB Downloader/ Export Trainer Data)

# The current List of Addons is as follows

- [Export Trainer Data](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/Export%20Trainer%20Data): Export Trainer Data from any Pokemon to save TID, SID, OT and Region settings for future auto legality mod genning
- [Legalize Boxes](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/Legalize%Boxes): Make every single Pokemon in the active box legal
- [MGDB Downloader](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/MGDB%20Downloader): Downloads the latest Release/Commit of the Event Gallery for event genning
- [PGL QR Auto Legality](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/PGL%20QR%20Auto%20Legality): Uses Auto legality mod to gen pokemon from a PGL QR code automatically
- [Smogon Genner](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/Smogon%20Genner): Uses Auto legality mod to enerate all Pokemon sets specified for a specific Pokemon on smogon.com
- [URL Genning](https://github.com/architdate/PKHeX-Auto-Legality-Mod/tree/master/Addons%20(Optional)/URL%20Genning): Uses Auto Legality mod to generate sets from a pastebin/pokepaste url and shows author data/title
